AB - OBJECTIVE : To investigate the relationship between the expression of Th1 / Th2 type cytokines and the effect of interferon - alpha therapy . 

METHODS : Th1 / Th2 type cytokines were assayed by enzyme - linked immunosorbent assay ( ELISA ) and reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction ( RT - PCR ) on 23 patients with chronic hepatitis B who were treated with interferon - alpha . 

RESULTS : Levels of IFN - gamma in the supernatant of peripheral blood mononuclear cells ( PBMC ) cultures from the patients with hepatitis B were slightly lower than those of controls ( P = 0.07 ) . 

However , the levels of IL - 4 were higher than those of controls ( P = 0.01 ) . 

Cytokines measurements during IFN - alpha treatment showed a trend to decreasing levels of IL - 4 at 4 , 12 , and 24 weeks . 

Levels of IFN - gamma were slightly increased following IFN - alpha treatment ( P = 0.09 ) . 

In patients with a complete response to IFN - alpha , the levels of IFN - gamma were higher at 24 weeks following IFN - alpha treatment than that of pre - treatment ( P = 0.04 ) , and the levels of IL - 4 decreased markedly at 12 and 24 weeks ( P = 0.02 , 0.03 , respectively ) . 
mRNA expression positively correlated with the level of Th1 / Th2 type cytokines in the supernatant . 

CONCLUSION : The expression of Th2 type cytokines is predominant in patients with chronic hepatitis B . 

Interferon - alpha therapy can modulate the balance of Th1 / Th2 type cytokines , and this is related to its clinical effect . 

Levels of Th1 / Th2 type cytokines could be a predictor of clinical response during Interferon - alpha treatment . 

AD - South Hospital , First Military Medical University , Guangzhou 510515 , 
TI - Involvement of BMP - 2 signaling in a cartilage cap in osteochondroma . 

AB - This study describes the distributions of bone morphogenetic protein ( BMP ) - 2 as well as mRNAs for BMP receptor type IB ( BMPRIB ) . 
collagen types II ( Col II ) and III ( Col III ) in a growing AMPPPP quot ; cartilage cap AMPPPP quot ; of osteochondroma . 

In situ hybridization and immunohistochemical study were performed using histological sections obtained during surgery . 

BMP - 2 was detected in mesenchymal cells in the outer fibrous layer and chondrocytes in the inner cartilaginous matrix , positive for Col III and Col II , respectively . 

BMPRIB mRNA was distributed in chondrocytes . 

This is the first study to provide observational evidence of the involvement of BMP - 2 signaling in the pathogenesis of cartilage cap of osteochondroma . 
and suggests the role of BMP - 2 in the growth of cartilage cap in osteochondroma . 

AD - Department of Orthopaedic Surgery , Osaka University Medical School , Suita , 
TI - The molar ratio of serum retinol - binding protein ( RBP ) to transthyretin ( TTR ) is not useful to assess vitamin A status during infection in hospitalised children . 

AB - OBJECTIVE : To assess the usefulness of the molar ratio of serum retinol - binding protein ( RBP ) to transthyretin ( TTR ) to determine vitamin A ( VA ) status during infection . 

DESIGN : We took advantage of previously collected data during a randomised double - blind , placebo - controlled clinical trial to conduct a secondary analysis of the RBP / TTR ratio and its relationship to infection and VA status . 

In this clinical trial , children were randomly assigned to one of three groups and received either one single oral high dose of VA ( 200 000 IU ) on the day of admission and subsequently a placebo daily until discharge or daily oral low doses of VA ( 5000 IU ) from admission until discharge or a placebo daily from admission until discharge . 

SETTING : Lwiro pediatric hospital , Province of South Kivu , Democratic Republic of Congo . 

SUBJECTS : A total of 900 children aged 0 - 72 months hospitalised consecutively between March 1994 and March 1996 . 

MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES : RBP / TTR molar ratio after 7 days hospitalisation . 

RESULTS : After 7 days hospitalisation , molar RBP : TTR ratio ( mean+ / - s.d . 
) of infected children ( C - reactive proteins GTTTTT 10 mg / l ) was 0.67 + / - 0.31 in the high - dose group ( n = 81 ) , 0.74 + / - 0.44 in the low dose group ( n = 71 ) and 0.73 + / - 0.39 in the placebo group ( n = 81 ) . 
These values did not differ significantly ( one - way ANOVA P = 0.472 ) . 
In patients with baseline serum retinol concentrations LTTTTT 0.70 micromol / l , changes in RBP : TTR ratio between admission and day 7 were not statistically different in the three groups ( one - way ANOVA P = 0.548 ) . 
CONCLUSIONS : In this population of malnourished hospitalised children , molar RBP : TTR ratio does not appear to be useful to assess VA status during infection . 
SPONSORSHIP : Our research was partially supported by a grant from the Fonds de la Recherche Scientifique et Medicale ( contract 3.4505.94 ) and the David and Alice Van Buuren Foundation . 
AD - School of Public Health , Universite Libre de Bruxelles , Brussels , Belgium . 

TI - Role of cyclin - dependent kinase inhibitors in the growth arrest at senescence in human prostate epithelial and uroepithelial cells . 

AB - Cellular senescence has been proposed to be an in vitro and in vivo block that cells must overcome in order to immortalize and become tumorigenic . 

To characterize these pathways , we focused on changes in the cyclin - dependent kinase inhibitors and their binding partners that underlie the cell cycle arrest at senescence . 

As a model , we utilized normal human prostate epithelial cell ( HPEC ) and human uroepithelial cell ( HUC ) cultures . 

After 30 - 40 population doublings cells became growth - arrested in G0 / 1 with a threefold decrease in Cdk2 - associated activity , a point defined as pre - senescence . 

Temporally following this growth arrest , the cells develop a senescence morphology and express senescence - associated beta - galactosidase ( SA - beta - gal ) . 

Levels of p16 ( INK4 a ) and p57 ( KIP2 ) rise in HUCs during progressive passages , whereas only p16 increases in HPEC cultures . 

The induced expression of p57 , similar to p16 , produces a senescent - like phenotype . 

pRB , cyclin D , p19 ( INK4 d ) and p27 ( KIP1 ) decrease in both cell types . 

We find that p53 , p21 ( CIP1 ) and p15 ( INK4 b ) are transiently elevated in HPECs and HUCs at the pre - senescent growth arrest , then return to low proliferating levels at terminal senescence . 

Analysis of p53 , p21 ( CIP1 ) , p15 ( INK4 b ) , p16 ( INK4 a ) , and p57 ( KIP2 ) reveals altered expression in immortalized , non - tumorigenic HPV16 E6 and E7 prostate lines and in tumorigenic prostate cancer cells . 
